>> I HAVE TO STOP YOU. YOU’RE DOING THE THING.
YOU’RE DOING THE THING. YOU’RE TALKING.
YOU’RE TALKING. I’M ABLE TO LOOK AT MY PHONE.
I’M ABLE TO LOOK AT MY PHONE. I’M GETTING THE UPDATE FROM
I’M GETTING THE UPDATE FROM INSIDE THE COURT.
INSIDE THE COURT. MANAFORT APOLOGIZED AND SAID
MANAFORT APOLOGIZED AND SAID IRMSI’M
IRMSI’M SORRY FOR WHAT I’VE DONE AND ALL
SORRY FOR WHAT I’VE DONE AND ALL THE ACTIVITIES THAT HAVE GOTTEN
THE ACTIVITIES THAT HAVE GOTTEN US HERE TODAY.
US HERE TODAY. FOR THE FIRST TIME HE’S PUBLICLY
FOR THE FIRST TIME HE’S PUBLICLY APOLOGIZING FOR THE CRIMES HE
APOLOGIZING FOR THE CRIMES HE COMMITTED TELLING THE JUDGE IN A
COMMITTED TELLING THE JUDGE IN A COURTROOM IN WASHINGTON THAT HE
COURTROOM IN WASHINGTON THAT HE IS SORRY FOR WHAT HE’S DONE.
IS SORRY FOR WHAT HE’S DONE. KEN, YOUR REACTION.
KEN, YOUR REACTION. >> Reporter: OF COURSE, IT’S
>> Reporter: OF COURSE, IT’S EASY TO SAY THAT, AND IT WOULD
EASY TO SAY THAT, AND IT WOULD HAVE BEEN SURPRISING IF HE
HAVE BEEN SURPRISING IF HE DIDN’T GIVEN ALL THE CRITICISM
DIDN’T GIVEN ALL THE CRITICISM OF HIS STATEMENT LAST WEEK WHERE
OF HIS STATEMENT LAST WEEK WHERE HE DIDN’T HAVE ANY REMORSE OR
HE DIDN’T HAVE ANY REMORSE OR APOLOGY.
APOLOGY. THE QUESTION IS DOES THE JUDGE
THE QUESTION IS DOES THE JUDGE BELIEVE HIM.
BELIEVE HIM. LET’S FACE IT, HALLIE, WHITE
LET’S FACE IT, HALLIE, WHITE COLLAR DEFENDANTS, COLLEGE
COLLAR DEFENDANTS, COLLEGE EDUCATED DEFENDANTS WHO CAM IN
EDUCATED DEFENDANTS WHO CAM IN SUITS TEND TO EXPRESS REMORSE.
SUITS TEND TO EXPRESS REMORSE. THEY KNOW IT’S IN THEIR SELF
THEY KNOW IT’S IN THEIR SELF INTEREST.
INTEREST. SOME WOULD ARGUE HIS CONDUCT
SOME WOULD ARGUE HIS CONDUCT LYING TO THE SPECIAL COUNSEL,
LYING TO THE SPECIAL COUNSEL, BREAKING HIS DEAL, COMMITTING
BREAKING HIS DEAL, COMMITTING CRIMES EVEN AFTER HE PLED GUILTY
CRIMES EVEN AFTER HE PLED GUILTY WOULD SUGGEST THAT HE, IN FACT,
WOULD SUGGEST THAT HE, IN FACT, DOES NOT FEEL REMORSE FOR THIS.
DOES NOT FEEL REMORSE FOR THIS. AND PARTICULARLY THE FACT THAT
AND PARTICULARLY THE FACT THAT HIS LAWYER KEEPS SAYING THAT HE
HIS LAWYER KEEPS SAYING THAT HE WOULDN’T BE HERE IF HE HADN’T
WOULDN’T BE HERE IF HE HADN’T GONE TO WORK FOR THE TRUMP
GONE TO WORK FOR THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN, WHICH MAY WELL BE
CAMPAIGN, WHICH MAY WELL BE TRUE.
TRUE. IT’S THE VIEW OF THE JUDGE IN
IT’S THE VIEW OF THE JUDGE IN VIRGINIA BUT IT’S IRRELEVANT.
VIRGINIA BUT IT’S IRRELEVANT. PEOPLE GET CAUGHT UP IN FEDERAL
PEOPLE GET CAUGHT UP IN FEDERAL PROSECUTIONS FOR ALL KINDS OF
PROSECUTIONS FOR ALL KINDS OF REASONS.
REASONS. THE FACT IS HE COMMITTED THE
THE FACT IS HE COMMITTED THE CRIMES.
CRIMES. HE’S PLED GUILTY AND NOW FACES
HE’S PLED GUILTY AND NOW FACES THE MUSIC.
THE MUSIC. >> BARBARA, LET ME GO TO YOU.
>> BARBARA, LET ME GO TO YOU. APOLOGYIES IF I INTERRUPT YOU.
APOLOGYIES IF I INTERRUPT YOU. I HAVE MY PHONE IN MY HAND TO
I HAVE MY PHONE IN MY HAND TO GET THE UPDATES INSIDE THE
GET THE UPDATES INSIDE THE COURTROOM WATCHING AS WE SPEAK
COURTROOM WATCHING AS WE SPEAK PAUL MANAFORT SPEAK.
PAUL MANAFORT SPEAK. WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF HIS APOLOGY?
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF HIS APOLOGY? >> I THINK IT’S SIGNIFICANT AND
>> I THINK IT’S SIGNIFICANT AND SOMETHING SHE’D BE LOOKING FOR.
SOMETHING SHE’D BE LOOKING FOR. SO OFTEN YOU HEAR WHITE COLLAR
SO OFTEN YOU HEAR WHITE COLLAR DEFENDANTS TALK ABOUT I’VE
DEFENDANTS TALK ABOUT I’VE ALREADY BEEN PUNISHED ENOUGH
ALREADY BEEN PUNISHED ENOUGH ALREADY.
ALREADY. I FEEL SHAME AND HUMILIATION.
I FEEL SHAME AND HUMILIATION. IT’S ABOUT LOSS OF STATUS IN
IT’S ABOUT LOSS OF STATUS IN THEIR COMMUNITY.
THEIR COMMUNITY. WE DON’T SEE INDIGENT DEFENDANTS
WE DON’T SEE INDIGENT DEFENDANTS GETTING BREAKS FOR THAT.
GETTING BREAKS FOR THAT. I THINK IT’S SIGNIFICANT.
I THINK IT’S SIGNIFICANT. I DON’T KNOW THAT MEANS HE GETS
I DON’T KNOW THAT MEANS HE GETS A LOWER SENTENCE, BUT IT
A LOWER SENTENCE, BUT IT PROBABLY HELPS HIM FROM NOT
PROBABLY HELPS HIM FROM NOT GETTING A HIGHER SENTENCE THAN
GETTING A HIGHER SENTENCE THAN SHE MIGHT HAVE GIVEN IF HE’D
SHE MIGHT HAVE GIVEN IF HE’D FAILED TO EXPRESS THAT KIND OF
FAILED TO EXPRESS THAT KIND OF REMORSE.
REMORSE. ONE OF THE THINGS I THINK THAT
ONE OF THE THINGS I THINK THAT BOTHERED A LOT OF PEOPLE ABOUT
BOTHERED A LOT OF PEOPLE ABOUT THE SENTENCE IN THE EASTERN
THE SENTENCE IN THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA WAS TO SEE
DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA WAS TO SEE THE WAY WHITE COLLAR DEFENDANTS
THE WAY WHITE COLLAR DEFENDANTS GET SUCH BREAKS WHEN A JUDGE VIR
GET SUCH BREAKS WHEN A JUDGE VIR TO SEE THE JUDGE SAY THE
TO SEE THE JUDGE SAY THE GUIDELINES WAS TOO HIGH.
GUIDELINES WAS TOO HIGH. THAT’S BASED ON WHAT DEFENDANTS
THAT’S BASED ON WHAT DEFENDANTS HAVE GOTTEN HISTORICALLY.
HAVE GOTTEN HISTORICALLY. YOU DO SEE THAT FRUMTOM TIME TO
YOU DO SEE THAT FRUMTOM TIME TO TIME.
TIME. THAT’S WHERE SHE SHOULD START.
THAT’S WHERE SHE SHOULD START. THE ONLY REASON TO VARY DOWNWARD
THE ONLY REASON TO VARY DOWNWARD IS MITIGATING FACTORS.
IS MITIGATING FACTORS. IN THIS CASE, THERE ARE NO
IN THIS CASE, THERE ARE NO MITIGATING FACTORS, IN FACT
MITIGATING FACTORS, IN FACT THERE’S AGGRAVATING FACTORS.
THERE’S AGGRAVATING FACTORS. IF THIS WERE NOT A WHITE COLLAR
IF THIS WERE NOT A WHITE COLLAR DEFENDANT, YOU’LL SEE THE MAX
DEFENDANT, YOU’LL SEE THE MAX SENTENCE.
SENTENCE. >> JOINING THE CONVERSATION,
>> JOINING THE CONVERSATION, MSNBC LEGAL ANALYST NICK
MSNBC LEGAL ANALYST NICK ACERMAN.
ACERMAN. NICK, WE’RE GETTING ANOTHER
NICK, WE’RE GETTING ANOTHER UPDATE FROM INSIDE THE COURT.
UPDATE FROM INSIDE THE COURT. PAUL MANAFORT IS TELLING THE
PAUL MANAFORT IS TELLING THE JUDGE I STAND HERE TODAY TO
JUDGE I STAND HERE TODAY TO ASSURE THE COURT THAT I AM A
ASSURE THE COURT THAT I AM A DIFFERENT PERSON WHO STOOD
DIFFERENT PERSON WHO STOOD BEFORE YOU IN OCTOBER OF 2017.
BEFORE YOU IN OCTOBER OF 2017. HE SAID HE’S SORRY, HE SAID HE
HE SAID HE’S SORRY, HE SAID HE FEELS LIKE HE’S A DIFFERENT
FEELS LIKE HE’S A DIFFERENT PERSON NOW AFTER THE SPECIAL
PERSON NOW AFTER THE SPECIAL COUNSEL PROSECUTOR ISSUED A
COUNSEL PROSECUTOR ISSUED A BLISTERING REBUKE OF MANAFORT’S
BLISTERING REBUKE OF MANAFORT’S CONDUCT OVER THE PAST DECADE.
CONDUCT OVER THE PAST DECADE. >> I DON’T SEE HOW HE’S A
>> I DON’T SEE HOW HE’S A DIFFERENT PERSON.
DIFFERENT PERSON. I THINK THAT WHOLE STATEMENT
I THINK THAT WHOLE STATEMENT RINGING HOLLOW IN LIGHT OF THE
RINGING HOLLOW IN LIGHT OF THE FACT HE LIED DURING HIS
FACT HE LIED DURING HIS COOPERATION AGREEMENT, SAID HE
COOPERATION AGREEMENT, SAID HE WAS GOING TO COOPERATE, DID NOT
WAS GOING TO COOPERATE, DID NOT COOPERATE.
COOPERATE. I DON’T THINK IT’S GOING TO GET
I DON’T THINK IT’S GOING TO GET HIM VERY FAR.
HIM VERY FAR. IT LOOKS SO OBVIOUS AFTER THE
IT LOOKS SO OBVIOUS AFTER THE CRITICISM BEFORE THE COURT LAST
CRITICISM BEFORE THE COURT LAST WEEK.
WEEK. I DON’T THINK HE HAD ANY CHOICE
I DON’T THINK HE HAD ANY CHOICE BUT TO SHOW SOME KIND OF
BUT TO SHOW SOME KIND OF REMORSE.
REMORSE. I DON’T THINK ANYBODY FOR A
I DON’T THINK ANYBODY FOR A MINUTE IS GOING TO BELIEVE THAT.
MINUTE IS GOING TO BELIEVE THAT. THIS GUY HAS DONE NOTHING BUT
THIS GUY HAS DONE NOTHING BUT MANIPULATE THE SYSTEM ALL THE
MANIPULATE THE SYSTEM ALL THE WAY THROUGH.
WAY THROUGH. HE MANIPULATED DOCUMENTS WITH
HE MANIPULATED DOCUMENTS WITH RESPECT TO THE IRS.
RESPECT TO THE IRS. HE MANIPULATED DOCUMENTS WITH
HE MANIPULATED DOCUMENTS WITH RESPECT TO HIS BANK LOANS.
RESPECT TO HIS BANK LOANS. AND I THINK THIS IS JUST ANOTHER
AND I THINK THIS IS JUST ANOTHER BIG MANIPULATION.
BIG MANIPULATION. THE JUDGE IS GOING TO TAKE IT
THE JUDGE IS GOING TO TAKE IT THAT WAY.
THAT WAY. >> THE JUDGE HAS CALLED A
>> THE JUDGE HAS CALLED A RECESS.
RECESS. WE NOW HAVE 20 MINUTES, SO SET
WE NOW HAVE 20 MINUTES, SO SET THE TIMER, AFTER PAUL MANAFORT
THE TIMER, AFTER PAUL MANAFORT HAS CONCLUDED HIS REMARKS TO THE
HAS CONCLUDED HIS REMARKS TO THE COURT.
COURT. WE’RE GOING TO BREAK NOW --
WE’RE GOING TO BREAK NOW -- WE’RE NOT GOING TO BREAK, BUT
WE’RE NOT GOING TO BREAK, BUT THE COURT IS GOING TO BREAK FOR
THE COURT IS GOING TO BREAK FOR 20 MINUTES.
20 MINUTES. WHF
WHF WHEN THEY COME BACK, JUDGE
WHEN THEY COME BACK, JUDGE JACKSON PR E
JACKSON PR E JACKSON WILL PRESUMABLY ISSUE
JACKSON WILL PRESUMABLY ISSUE HER SENTENCE.
HER SENTENCE. >> THAT’S RIGHT.
>> THAT’S RIGHT. PROCEDURALLY ONCE THE DEFENDANT
PROCEDURALLY ONCE THE DEFENDANT ALLOCATES, IN THIS CASE
ALLOCATES, IN THIS CASE APOLOGIZING
APOLOGIZING APOLOGIZING, HOLLOW OR NOT, THE
APOLOGIZING, HOLLOW OR NOT, THE JUDGE GIVES THE SENTENCE AND
JUDGE GIVES THE SENTENCE AND THEN THE PROCEEDING IS OVER.
THEN THE PROCEEDING IS OVER. SHE WANTS TO REFLECT ON THIS A
SHE WANTS TO REFLECT ON THIS A LITTLE BIT.
LITTLE BIT. MOST JUDGES IN FRONT OF WHOM I
MOST JUDGES IN FRONT OF WHOM I PRACTICED WOULDN’T TAKE A BREAK.
PRACTICED WOULDN’T TAKE A BREAK. >> DO YOU THINK BECAUSE THIS IS
>> DO YOU THINK BECAUSE THIS IS SO HIGH PROFILE?
SO HIGH PROFILE? >> SHE’S A THOUGHTFUL AND
>> SHE’S A THOUGHTFUL AND CAREFUL JUDGE.
CAREFUL JUDGE. SHE WANTS TO THINK ABOUT WHAT
SHE WANTS TO THINK ABOUT WHAT SHE’S HEARD.
SHE’S HEARD. MAYBE THERE’S SOMETHING IN THE
MAYBE THERE’S SOMETHING IN THE PRESENTENCE REPORT SHE WANTS TO
PRESENTENCE REPORT SHE WANTS TO READ AGAIN.
READ AGAIN. TYPICALLY IN EASTERN VIRGINIA,
TYPICALLY IN EASTERN VIRGINIA, IT WAS JUST ONE CONTINUOUS
IT WAS JUST ONE CONTINUOUS PROCEEDING WITHOUT A BREAK.
PROCEEDING WITHOUT A BREAK. >> BARBARA?
>> BARBARA? WHAT WAS -- WHAT’S YOUR SENSE OF
WHAT WAS -- WHAT’S YOUR SENSE OF HOW THIS IS GOING CURRENTLY?
HOW THIS IS GOING CURRENTLY? JUDGE AMY BERMAN JACKSON TAKING
JUDGE AMY BERMAN JACKSON TAKING BREAK HERE, POTENTIAL ALTLY THIN
BREAK HERE, POTENTIAL ALTLY THIN ABOUT WHAT PAUL MANAFORT HAS
ABOUT WHAT PAUL MANAFORT HAS SAID.
SAID. >> THE PRACTICE WAS THE SAME,
>> THE PRACTICE WAS THE SAME, TYPICALLY JUST GO STRAIGHT
TYPICALLY JUST GO STRAIGHT THROUGH TO SENTENCING, UNLESS
THROUGH TO SENTENCING, UNLESS TVSIT
TVSIT WAS A LENGTHY HEARING AND UNLESS
WAS A LENGTHY HEARING AND UNLESS THERE WERE THINGS THE COURT
THERE WERE THINGS THE COURT WANTED TODAY
WANTED TODAY WANTED TO RECONSIDER.
WANTED TO RECONSIDER. NOT OUT OF THE NORM OR UNUSUAL
NOT OUT OF THE NORM OR UNUSUAL TO TAKE BREAK.
TO TAKE BREAK. I WOULDN’T READ TOO MUCH INTO
I WOULDN’T READ TOO MUCH INTO THAT.
THAT. THE IDEA THAT HE’S A CHANGED
THE IDEA THAT HE’S A CHANGED PERSON, HE’S NOT DEMONSTRATED
PERSON, HE’S NOT DEMONSTRATED THAT.
THAT. PEOPLE SPEAK THROUGH THEIR
PEOPLE SPEAK THROUGH THEIR ACTIONS AND BY TAMPERING WITH
ACTIONS AND BY TAMPERING WITH WITNESSES DURING THE CASE, BY
WITNESSES DURING THE CASE, BY CONTINUING TO LIE AFTER HIS
CONTINUING TO LIE AFTER HIS GUILTY PLEA, BASED ON WHAT I’VE
GUILTY PLEA, BASED ON WHAT I’VE HEARD, AND I HAVEN’T HEARD
HEARD, AND I HAVEN’T HEARD EVERYTHING JUDGE JACKSON HAS
EVERYTHING JUDGE JACKSON HAS HEARD.
HEARD. I DON’T KNOW THAT THAT I WOULD
I DON’T KNOW THAT THAT I WOULD TAKE THAT ALL THAT SERIOUSLY.
TAKE THAT ALL THAT SERIOUSLY. A REASONABLE JUDGE WILL LOOK AT
A REASONABLE JUDGE WILL LOOK AT THE GUIDELINES OF 17-21, CAPPED
THE GUIDELINES OF 17-21, CAPPED AT 10.
AT 10. IN THE ABSENCE OF MITIGATING
IN THE ABSENCE OF MITIGATING FACTORS, A TEN YEAR SENTENCE AND
FACTORS, A TEN YEAR SENTENCE AND A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF IT TO
A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF IT TO BE CONSECUTIVE WITH THAT IN
BE CONSECUTIVE WITH THAT IN VIRGINIA.